In this lecture, we're going to go over Linux file and user commands.
Let's get started.
So the first thing that will be used often will be creating a new file.
So you run, touch, and then name of the file, and this will create a new blank file.
So personally, the command I use a lot is code.
So code is a tool that you can install in Visual Studio code and then you can run, as you could see,
code space, name of the file.
And it is going to create the new file as well as open this new file in your ID.
So you can just type in code and then save.
Now, let's say you don't want to use the code command so you can create the new file using touch,
and then you can do that.
And then the redirect symbol and then the name of the file in this case, new file txt.
And then you can type in the lines, let's say adding some lines, second line and then you press control.
DX To end the input and save the file and to display the file.
You can run Cat and then just the name of the file.
So note that for displaying the file there is no redirect symbol, just the cat command and then the
name of the file and then it is going to display the two lines we have input in the previous step.
So unfortunately you have to use VI editor in most cases because in most cases you want to copy, paste
or do a little bit of advanced editing rather than just inputting line in the command line.
So Fi editor is not fun and it's a totally different topic.
So I'm going to cover via editor in a separate lecture.
Now let's go over some of the user commands.
And so when you are in Linux, you will be logged in as a user.
So if you run a Who am I?
It is going to show you the current user.
So in the DevOps world, let's say you are logged in to ec2 and you probably have seen this by default.
You are logged in as the username easy to dash user.
So if you run, who am I from your C to box after usage n it is going to show you easy to dash user.
So similarly, when you want to switch into AC two, you have to provide a switch and then the name
of the user and then add the right IP address of your ESI to box.
You can switch user using the as you command so as you stand for switch user.
So let's say you want to switch user to reg and this user does not exist.
So let's say you want to switch user to route to do a lot of administrative stuff.
So you could do some space route and then you have to give the password.
So if you are just a user of the system, you are not going to have the password.
So it is going to fail as authentication failure.
So how are you going to install a new softwares and packages?
So for that you have to use sudo as in super user do.
So what it is doing is it is not allowing you to switch the user to root, but it is allowing you to
run install commands using super do.
So in this case, let's say you want to install this lynx package, so you are going to run sudo and
then depending on the operating system, either yum install lynx or pip install lynx and then it is
going to install the package and then you will be reverted back to your current user.
All right.
Now that we are getting into a real world DevOps cases, let's take a look at how are you going to call
API with Linux commands in the next lecture?